README.md, before:

# Erdos_RootInsurance_FinalProject_2021
Repository for Erdos Institute Root Insurance Final Project 2021 Group Koala

Group Members:
Wendson Antonio de Sa Barbosa,
Preston Pozderac,
David Wen

This project is a requirement of completeion for the Fall 2021 Data Science Bootcamp at the Erdos Institute.
This is a corporate sponsered project by Root Insurance. 

Project Description https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o1VlpVhNBgW8RQC9C2wKxRg_N28uQXPv/view?usp=sharing

## Project Overview:

The ACME Insurance Company is assessing its marketing spending on a vertical search channel.
A customer will enter infromation about their insurance needs, and insurance companies will place a bid for the customer.
Ads are then displayed in order of highest to lowest bids for the customer from rank 1 to 5.
When a customer clicks on the ad, the company pays the price of their bid and the customer is then able to purchase a policy. 


## Project Goal:

Determine a bidding strategy, based on the type of customer, that will optimize the cost per policy sold while ensuring that 400 policies are sold per 10,000 ads.

## Dataset

Our data set consists of 10,000 ads with the 4 customer features ("Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", "Number of Vehicles", and "Marital Status") and the 3 website features ("Rank", "Clicks", and "Policies Sold"). The final variable is the "Bid" which was a constant $10 for all 36 customer demographics. Since it was constant, we can not include it in any of our models. From the 10,000 impressions, 1878 produced clicks and 783 policies sold. This imbalanced data was combatted using various sampling techniques as well as stratification on our testing and training data. 


Note: This means our original bidding strategy exceeds the goal of 400 policies sold per 10,000 customers however we will  still look to optimize the cost per policy. 


## Approach

We developed three models to predict the key output variables of: Ad Rank, Number of Clicks, and Policies Sold.
Since the variable bid cannot be implemented in the model, each model provides crucial information for determining the optimal strategy.

Rank: Determines which customers demographics our initial $10 bid under and over performs on. When it underperforms, we know other companies value these customers and are consistently outbidding us. 

Clicks: Evaluates the overall cost of each demographic as companies only pay their bid if a customer clicks. Important in order to minimize our cost per policy. 

Policies Sold: Predicts the total policies sold within each demographic and how changes in rank can affect sales. This allows us to find which customers represent the greatest market for potential growth through increased bids.

### Rank Model
[Rank Model link](RootProject_RandomForest_FinalModel.ipynb)

The rank model uses a random forest model and the features of "Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", and "Number of Vehicles" to determine the probability distribution of ranks 1-5. Different models were compared using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve using both "one vs one" multi-class classification. The accuracy of this model 0.43 as opposed to the baseline accuracy (always chose the median/mode rank of 3) of 0.24. From the importance score, the "Insurance States" is the most significant (0.627), nearly double the "Number of Vehicles" (0.336), with the "Number of Drivers" has only a marginal effect (0.037). This follows EDA as there is a stark difference between "Unknown" insurance status and the "Yes" and "No" classes, followed by smaller changes based on number of vehicles.

### Clicks Model
[Clicks Model Link](Model%20-%20Clicks%2C%20Neural%20Network.ipynb)

### Sales Model
[Sales Model Link](Model%20-%20Policies%20Sold%2C%20Logistic%20Regression.ipynb)

## Results

[Post Model Analysis](Post%Analysis.ipynb)

In order to determine an optimal bidding strategy without the bid strategy, we determined metrics that made certain demographics more or less desirable. 

-***Cost Efficiency***: By comparing the expected number of policies to the number of clicks (bid is paid out at click), we found which demographics were more cost efficient. Setting the policiy per click at 0.35, our models identified 22 customer demographics as cost efficient with at least 1 policy sold for approximately every 3 clicks. These fell primarily in the category of "Unknown" and "No" insurance status as well as the demographics with fewer vehicles.

-***Potential Growth***: If we manipulate rank distribution, increasing each ranks or setting all ads to rank 1/2, we can determine the possible gains in sales. We find that the "No" insurance status typically have the highest gains in sales. This is due to their high policy sold per click and their initially low ranking. When the initial rankings are already 1/2, there is not as much room for growth as one starting with 4/5 rankings.

-***Minimized Loss***: Similar to growth, if we decrease our ranks or set all ads to rank 5, we identify the demographics where savings can be extracted with minimal losses in policy sales. In this case, the "Yes" insured status customers have  few policies sold and a very low policies per click ratio. Decreasing the bids here have little impact on the policies sold while reducing the overall cost.

## Bidding Strategy

[Bidding Strategy](Bidding%Strategies%Proposal.ipynb)

Using our results, we constructed the following bidding strategy. Again, since the bid variable is constant, our models cannot predict the impact of specific increases/decreases in bid. Therefore we can only give general recommendations on how to change bidding

-***Keep bids on “Unknown” insured customers fixed***: This would ensure that at least 500 sales per 10,0000 customers.

-***Decrease bids on Insured customers***: Generally, insured customers have the lowest sales per click with some requiring 5 clicks before a policy is sold.

-***Increase bids on Uninsured customers, especially those with a lower number of vehicles***: Generally, uninsured customers have high sales per click and have many not in rank 1 which implies there is a higher potential for gaining sales.

## Future Iterations

[Future LP Optimal Strategy](Future_Determining_Optimal_Strategy.ipynb)

For the future of this project, new data should be taken with varying bids in each demographic, focused on the largest growth potential customers. Our models will be able to determine the influence of bids on rank, clicks, and sales. Utilizing the package PuLP, a linear programming solver can find the exact configuration of strategies, one per demographic, that minimizes the cost while maintaining a minimum number of policies sold.

Commit message:

Added clicks and sales model descriptions

README.md, after:

# Erdos_RootInsurance_FinalProject_2021
Repository for Erdos Institute Root Insurance Final Project 2021 Group Koala

Group Members:
Wendson Antonio de Sa Barbosa,
Preston Pozderac,
David Wen

This project is a requirement of completeion for the Fall 2021 Data Science Bootcamp at the Erdos Institute.
This is a corporate sponsered project by Root Insurance. 

Project Description https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o1VlpVhNBgW8RQC9C2wKxRg_N28uQXPv/view?usp=sharing

## Project Overview:

The ACME Insurance Company is assessing its marketing spending on a vertical search channel.
A customer will enter infromation about their insurance needs, and insurance companies will place a bid for the customer.
Ads are then displayed in order of highest to lowest bids for the customer from rank 1 to 5.
When a customer clicks on the ad, the company pays the price of their bid and the customer is then able to purchase a policy. 


## Project Goal:

Determine a bidding strategy, based on the type of customer, that will optimize the cost per policy sold while ensuring that 400 policies are sold per 10,000 ads.

## Dataset

Our data set consists of 10,000 ads with the 4 customer features ("Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", "Number of Vehicles", and "Marital Status") and the 3 website features ("Rank", "Clicks", and "Policies Sold"). The final variable is the "Bid" which was a constant $10 for all 36 customer demographics. Since it was constant, we can not include it in any of our models. From the 10,000 impressions, 1878 produced clicks and 783 policies sold. This imbalanced data was combatted using various sampling techniques as well as stratification on our testing and training data. 


Note: This means our original bidding strategy exceeds the goal of 400 policies sold per 10,000 customers however we will  still look to optimize the cost per policy. 


## Approach

We developed three models to predict the key output variables of: Ad Rank, Number of Clicks, and Policies Sold.
Since the variable bid cannot be implemented in the model, each model provides crucial information for determining the optimal strategy.

Rank: Determines which customers demographics our initial $10 bid under and over performs on. When it underperforms, we know other companies value these customers and are consistently outbidding us. 

Clicks: Evaluates the overall cost of each demographic as companies only pay their bid if a customer clicks. Important in order to minimize our cost per policy. 

Policies Sold: Predicts the total policies sold within each demographic and how changes in rank can affect sales. This allows us to find which customers represent the greatest market for potential growth through increased bids.

### Rank Model
[Rank Model link](RootProject_RandomForest_FinalModel.ipynb)

The rank model uses a random forest model and the features of "Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", and "Number of Vehicles" to determine the probability distribution of ranks 1-5. Different models were compared using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve using both "one vs one" multi-class classification. The accuracy of this model 0.43 as opposed to the baseline accuracy (always chose the median/mode rank of 3) of 0.24. From the importance score, the "Insurance States" is the most significant (0.627), nearly double the "Number of Vehicles" (0.336), with the "Number of Drivers" has only a marginal effect (0.037). This follows EDA as there is a stark difference between "Unknown" insurance status and the "Yes" and "No" classes, followed by smaller changes based on number of vehicles.

### Clicks Model
[Clicks Model Link](Model%20-%20Clicks%2C%20Neural%20Network.ipynb)

The click model takes the features "Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", "Number of Vehicles", "Marital Status" and "Rank" and determines the probability of click. As the data is imbalances the area under the precision recall curve was used our performance metric for testing the models. Of all the models that were tested, the neural network model with 2 hidden layers performed the best with an average cross validation score of .462, which is more than double the baseline model score of .1876. While interpretability is lost with this choice of a neural network model, the importance of clicks in determining cost, as well as, the intention to use the outputted probability scores as features for the sales models motivates this choice.

### Sales Model
[Sales Model Link](Model%20-%20Policies%20Sold%2C%20Logistic%20Regression.ipynb)

The sales model takes the features "Insurance Status", "Number of Drivers", "Number of Vehicles", "Marital Status", "Rank" and "click probability" (obtained from the clicks model) and determines the probability of a sale. As with the clicks model, the data set for sales is also imbalanced and the area under the precision recall curve was used as our performance metric for testing the models. Of all the models that were tested, the Logistic Regression model performed the best with an average cross validation score of .208 which is more than double the baseline model score of .078. From the importance score, the most significant feature for the sales model was "Rank" (.81) and "click probability"(.66) and other significant features were "Insurance Status"(.45), "Number of Drivers"(.25), "Number of Vehicles"(.2) while "Marital Status" (.09) had marginal effects.

## Results

[Post Model Analysis](Post%Analysis.ipynb)

In order to determine an optimal bidding strategy without the bid strategy, we determined metrics that made certain demographics more or less desirable. 

-***Cost Efficiency***: By comparing the expected number of policies to the number of clicks (bid is paid out at click), we found which demographics were more cost efficient. Setting the policiy per click at 0.35, our models identified 22 customer demographics as cost efficient with at least 1 policy sold for approximately every 3 clicks. These fell primarily in the category of "Unknown" and "No" insurance status as well as the demographics with fewer vehicles.

-***Potential Growth***: If we manipulate rank distribution, increasing each ranks or setting all ads to rank 1/2, we can determine the possible gains in sales. We find that the "No" insurance status typically have the highest gains in sales. This is due to their high policy sold per click and their initially low ranking. When the initial rankings are already 1/2, there is not as much room for growth as one starting with 4/5 rankings.

-***Minimized Loss***: Similar to growth, if we decrease our ranks or set all ads to rank 5, we identify the demographics where savings can be extracted with minimal losses in policy sales. In this case, the "Yes" insured status customers have  few policies sold and a very low policies per click ratio. Decreasing the bids here have little impact on the policies sold while reducing the overall cost.

## Bidding Strategy

[Bidding Strategy](Bidding%Strategies%Proposal.ipynb)

Using our results, we constructed the following bidding strategy. Again, since the bid variable is constant, our models cannot predict the impact of specific increases/decreases in bid. Therefore we can only give general recommendations on how to change bidding

-***Keep bids on “Unknown” insured customers fixed***: This would ensure that at least 500 sales per 10,0000 customers.

-***Decrease bids on Insured customers***: Generally, insured customers have the lowest sales per click with some requiring 5 clicks before a policy is sold.

-***Increase bids on Uninsured customers, especially those with a lower number of vehicles***: Generally, uninsured customers have high sales per click and have many not in rank 1 which implies there is a higher potential for gaining sales.

## Future Iterations

[Future LP Optimal Strategy](Future_Determining_Optimal_Strategy.ipynb)

For the future of this project, new data should be taken with varying bids in each demographic, focused on the largest growth potential customers. Our models will be able to determine the influence of bids on rank, clicks, and sales. Utilizing the package PuLP, a linear programming solver can find the exact configuration of strategies, one per demographic, that minimizes the cost while maintaining a minimum number of policies sold.
